
### `mvn clean`

Removes the `target` directory with all the built artifacts (compiled classes, jar files, etc.). It's usually used to ensure a fresh build.

shellCopy code

```
mvn clean
``` 

### `mvn compile`

Compiles the source code of the project.

shellCopy code

```
mvn compile
``` 

### `mvn test`

Generated byte code , runs the tests for the project using a suitable unit testing framework such as JUnit. It compiles and runs all the tests.

```
mvn test
``` 

### `mvn package`

Compiles the code, runs tests, and packages it into a JAR or WAR (depending on your project).


```
mvn package
``` 

### `mvn install`

Installs the package into the local repository, which can then be used as a dependency in other projects locally.


```
mvn install
``` 

### `mvn spring-boot:run`

Runs the Spring Boot application. It compiles and runs the application. The Spring Boot Maven plugin must be configured in your `pom.xml`.


```
mvn spring-boot:run
```

### `mvn clean install`

A combination of `clean` and `install`. It ensures a fresh build by deleting the `target` directory before building and installing the artifact.


```
mvn clean install
``` 

### `mvn dependency:tree`

Displays the dependency tree of the project, helping you to see the dependencies and their transitive dependencies.


```
mvn dependency:tree`
``` 

### `mvn verify`

Runs any checks to verify the package is valid and meets quality criteria.

```
mvn verify`
``` 

### `mvn site`

Generates a site for the project that includes information from various reports.

```
mvn site
```


### `mvn versions:display-dependency-updates`

Checks for updates to dependencies and plugins.


```
mvn versions:display-dependency-updates
``` 

These commands can be combined with various flags and options for additional functionality. For example, `-DskipTests=true` can be used with `mvn package` or `mvn install` to compile and package the application without running tests.

It's worth noting that for a typical Spring Boot development lifecycle, you may often only use a few of these commands regularly, such as `mvn clean install`, `mvn test`, and `mvn spring-boot:run`. The other commands are more situational and used as needed.
